Will come back.
How did you do in that exercise.
Let's have a look at the solution.
Let's start off with stacks.
I said that with stacks they can be implemented using arrays or linked lists.
In this case both arrays and length lists are going to work fairly well in the end.
It depends on why you prefer and why your priorities are.
And by this point you should understand the pros and cons of arrays and pros and cons of linked lists.
So we don't need to go into much detail since we've talked about it before.
But one major thing is that arrays allow something called cache locality which makes them technically
faster when accessing its items in memory because they're right next to each other versus a linked list
that has them scattered all over memory and also linked lists have extra memory associated with them
because we have to hold on to those pointers.
But on the other hand they have more dynamic memory.
Right.
And we can keep adding things to the list versus an array where you have either a static array or a
dynamic array that has certain amount of memory.
And as soon as it's about to reach its limit it's going to have to double up their memory and create
new space for it somewhere in memory.
So you have to think about what sort of operations you're going to do and why your priorities are to
decide which one you want.
But they could both work and we're going to build a stack data structure with both of these coming up.
Cues on the other hand is a very simple answer.
You would never want to build it with an array or if you do.
While that's not necessarily a good idea and ideally you want to implement them with linked lists.
Why is that well if you remember arrays have indexes associated with them.
So if we had mad here then we have joy.
Then we have sumir.
Then we have Pavel that are in.
Q If this was in an array data structure and Matt was the first in line and we need to remove Matt from
the queue Well once we remove Matt we now need to shift the indexes over so we have to go one by one
and say All right Joy is now here.
An index of zero sumir is that index of 1 and Pavel is an index of 2.
And there's nothing index of 3.
We just shifted those to race.
It's an O of an operation linear time versus something like a linked list where all we have is a pointer
to the head and then perhaps we have a pointer to the tail and all we need to do is say head.
Well Matt we want to remove Matt and joy is going to be the head and nothing else changes.
And that's an all of one operation or constant Constantine.
I hope you are able to get the answer otherwise at least now you know.
And this is a very common interview question that you might get asked that hopefully you have an answer
to now but enough talking.
I think it's time for us to build these data structures from the ground up.
I'll see in the next video Buh-Bye.